Chapel TSC: Kickoff Meeting
===================

TSC members in attendance: all 13


## Questions on the Technical Charter

- Karlon: What is "Series Manager"?
    - The person who "owns"/administers the LLC
    - LF is very hands-off, so they'll only be active when there is abuse etc
- Abhishek: Re committers: There are other ways for non-HPE to contribute: badges etc. Those can be plusses without making actual commiters from non-HPE people

### Tech Charter Vote
- Adopt as-is: 13 aye, 0 nay, 0 abstain

## Governance.md

- After brief discussion and hearing some would abstain from vote, decided to
  proceed with this one asynchronously and on the PR that contains the edits


## Renaming & Logistics?
- Jade: If we change the name after Tech Charter is signed, can the LLC stay as "Chapel"?
    - Brad: TODO to ask this question. Assumes that it can be changed, but would anybody bother?
    - Jade: Follow up: how public is the name?
        - Brad: Legally it is public. Practically speaking, if the language was called Cascade, and the technical charter stayed the same, not very many people would notice
- Ben: Can the LLC be named something else other than Chapel? We can just call it CHPL for the time being to give us more flexibility.
    - Brad: TODO to ask. intriguing
    - Ben Followup: Our GH org is chapel-lang, will that need to change?
    - Brad: TODO will find the list of things that need to change and put it up somewhere TSC can see.
- Elliot: LF didn't like Cascade, can you elaborate?
    - Brad: Team was on board with it. HPE wasn't on board (e.g., Cascade Dish Soap). So, we got stuck.
        - Then asked LF during the HPSF transition, they said we can do whatever, but they'd need to review the name. And they were not OK with "Cascade".
        - Elliot: "Cascade" sounds like a generic term?
            - Brad: LF's response was based on search and not something legal. There were many tech projects with name "cascade" in.

---

## Post Meeting
- Engin: Can we use GH issues/discussions on the `governance` repo for some of the discussions?
     - Brad: Makes sense, but wants to create a TSC repo, if we'd do that. Governance and TSC do not necessarily completely overlap.
- Ben: Are people supposed to fill out a form or something to join TSC? How about conflict of interest?
    - Brad: It is totally OK for us to ask for more proof about their involvement in Chapel (and whether they are AI or real human :)). 
    - Brad: Not sure about a formal CoI question. There is text protecting against conflict of interests in the documentation in any case.
    - Brad: it'd be interesting to see how other projects handle CoI.
    - Ben: LF might have some past experience and preparation for scenarios like that
        - Brad: Thinks that we would have come across anything like that if existed. TODO will ask nonetheless
