- We have quorum. (12/13)
    - Elliot Ronaghan is the only TSC member missing

- Chris Clark from LF joined as well
    - Program Manager for HPSF under LF
    - Primary POC for HPSF + All projects within
    - Part of the project formation team for onboarding

## GOVERNANCE.md

- Lydia: ... TSC members should be following minor changes if they are interested ... the owner of the PR can ping TSC if they vehemently disagree with a topic (Missing parts because Engin forgot he was the notetaker)
    - Brad: Yes interesting proposal going forward. 
    - Lydia: Should we have a vote about it?
    - Brad: Let's queue it.
        - We need to have an issue/discussion about
            - How to change GOVERNANCE.md?
            - Expectations from TSC members?
            - These are the future things we should be discussing
        - Lydia volunteers for kicking off these discussions

- No objections to going forward with GOVERNANCE.md


## Voting Methodology

- Abhishek: Do we need an anonymous voting mechanism? We want people to be able to justify their votes after all. We don't have to make the vote details public or recorded.
    - Brad: Open to that. Consider picking TSC Chair. Anonymous voting makes sense.
    - Engin: We should start anonymity as quickly as possible. Otherwise, we can't have that discussion prior to a specific vote.
    - Brad: Hopefully, we'll have a healthy amount of discussion before votes, where people's stances will be visible.
        - Agrees about Engin's point
    - Lydia: Agrees about the value of anonymity. It will increase the value of votes.
    - Brad: Anonymous voting could be a better default based on people's reaction.
    - Chris (LF): It is not that significant that things need to be anonymous, wouldn't expect there to be too many vehement disagreements. While agreeing with it is not a bad idea to have anonymity by default.
        - Doesn't expect people to be pressured, though.
        - It'd be good, but not very important.
    - Brad: Can the person who sets up the vote in LFX tool can see the result?
        - Chris: Used it quite a bit. If Brad set's the vote up, he can see the results.
            - If you want more anonymity, Chris can set it up for us. (He will see it)
    - Brad: Does HPSF TAC use the voting tool?
        - Yes. Also the governing board.

- No objections for moving forward with non-anonymity for the upcoming votes: Renaming, logo, chair.

## Renaming
- Lydia: These are reasonable options, but her opinion: (as someone who is more on the hesitant side)
    - Would prefer to vote on timing in a way that's based on whether we should rename at all.
    - Timing and whether to do it are exclusive
        - e.g. she doesn't want to rename, but if we do it we should do it right away
    - Brad: Separating when and whether is attractive, is that right?
        - Lydia: If we decide to rename, she wants to do it in the best way possible.

- Karlon: If you change the name, the logo design might want to reflect that. So, making the logo now might reflect that it begins with the letter C.
    - Brad: +1
        - Logo and rename is entangled. 
        - If we were to proceed with the logo design independently, we can give guidance to the designers. That guidance can include
            - not tie it to Chapel or the letter C (Cray TM)
        - Agrees that ideally logo should be done after the name change, but there are ways to uncouple the two discussions.

## Logo
- Jade: Curious about HPE's hesitancy about the letter C.
    - Brad jumps to the Logo slides
    - Jade: C, C++, C# also have Cs
        - But those are not official
- Lydia: Associating with Cray have been helpful for us. HPE not allowing us to be associated with it feels a little bit undermining.
    - Chapel's success so far comes from its association with Cray and supercomputers
    - Though, still not sure whether it would be very constructive to take this further
    - Brad: Agrees, the company wants to protects is brand in case we go off the rails.

- Ben on chat: I don't think it will be productive to try and push back against legal, even if it makes logical sense to us

- Engin: can we take our logo as inspiration?
    - Brad: probably
    
- Brad (and Lydia on chat): Wants to keep the color pallette

## Back to general discussions about renaming/logo
- Brad: expresses that we should move forward
- Jade: We should have space to rename and logo renew, but that shouldn't hold up HPSF
- Engin: Expresses opinion in general to keep the name
- Lydia: The longer we keep this lingering, it will make the project less successful after the rename
- Lydia: Prefers to have a discussion sooner rather than later
- Brad: aware of folks aware of renaming, but it is unclear whether that should be before or after transition.
    - Abhishek: Definitely in favor of considering renaming. Agrees with most of us that delaying us further doesn't make much sense. We can always do this later. Renaming should not be a blocker.
        - Agrees that new name would be good for the logo, but agrees that we can do it Brad's way to uncouple logo and name

- Engin: We should vote on what should we do before finishing the transition

- Jade: What if we rename after the new logo?
    - Brad: We may not want the name Chapel in the logo
        - "We want a logo with strong visual, that's not tied to the name, but if I want to rename, I should be able to put the name in"
