Slide 1
=======
* We only barely have quorum, so close votes might not go through.
* Brad is more interested in taking discussion over making decisions
* Brad is trying to steer the conversation to avoid convening the TSC every 2 weeks.
* Most interesting discussion is at the end, but there's a lot of buildup to get there.

Slide 3:
=======
* Brad reviewed the charter but not in depth; believes document we were sent is what we agreed to.

Slide 5:
=======
* Some conflicting voting information / circularity:
    We want the logo before moving to HPSF, but...
    We want to change the name before designing a logo, but...
    We don't want to change the name before moving to HPSF

Slide 8:
=======
* Community -> favorites -> designers -> iterate was the route we took with
  the original logo. Brad was unsure about the designers' suggestions at the time,
  but now believes it's the right move: designers can anticipate and think about
  things we may not.
* Two foundational steps:
  * Determine guidance (needed for both paths)
  * Pick route (designers or community)

Slide 12:
========
* HPE suggests we not use the historical palette because it may be associated with Cray.
* Brad feels that the colors are unrelated to Cray, and is curious if HPSF has thoughts.
* Elliot: what is HPE sensitive to in this situation? (logo, color), and why?
* Brad: they are careful about brand crispness. They want things unrelated to them
  to not be associated with them accidentally. The Cray logos have a "chunky C"
  which the Chapel logo shares, and we use the Cray font. HPE feels the C
  feels very similar to historical Cray designs.

  Not only does our chunky C look like Cray's chunky C from a distance, we also
  were associated with HPE/Cray, and so it makes sense that HPE lawyers are nervous.

  We created our palette from scratch, Brad knows that.
* Elliot: what's the concern with being associated with Cray?
* Brad: HPE doesn't want this (the lawyers). If they no longer control us,
  and we do crazy stuff, they don't want the public to associate our
  (uncontrolled, crazy) actions with HPE. So having unrelated branding helps
  build insulation against our actions.

* Daniel: likes color palette but is sensitive to HPE.
* Brad: we need to make the HPSF designers aware of the legal concerns.
        Believes there are other palettes that can work.
        Thinks that keeping the colors the same would also help keep the association through the logo change.

Moving on to 3 logos we like
* Andy: are there any other logos from the previous round we like?
* Brad: a lot of those logos were sketches of ideas; he doubts there will be
        others we immediately like from that list.
* Daniel: I like the Python and Lua logos (even without words, colors, they are recognizable and simple).
* Brad: likes the idea of considering other logos in our space (e.g., not FedEx, but other languages)
* Engin: doesn't like the AMReX logo (too complicated)
* Daniel: seconds that, AMReX is not appealing.
* Engin: likes icons that he can imagine as file format icons for e.g., .chpl files.
         The logo we pick should be clearly distinguishable when it's tiny.

On top language description words:
* Elliot: I would drop portable and language.
* Engin same, and the third I would drop would be scalable. Leave productive, parallel, performant?
* Abhishek: maybe we should keep scalable, it seems important.
* Ben: it seems hard to visually represent "productive" compared to "scalable".
* Daniel: 3p's: productive, parallel, performant are 3ps, alliteration.
* Abhishek: it's hard to represent productive visually, and it's very broad.
            Simplicity, elegance might be easier to represent.
* Brad: another word we use is "programmable", i.e. easy to read and write.
* Abhishek: with GenAI, long verbose code is not as big a deal as it used to be,
            so "productivity" might no longer be the same as as "brevity" [Daniel's interpretation]
* Engin: simplicity was one of the words that came up, which is not the same
         as productive. Engin worries about elegant ("I don't want them to create
         a logo for a chandelier company"), and scalable is more on the high-end
         (HPCs, not desktops)
* Daniel: graphic designers might know how to represent visually words that we don't,
          we should leave it to them.
* Ben: 'fast' might be a more familiar word than 'performant' to graphic designers

Brad doesn't want the whole TSC to be required to iterate on these things.
Are people comfortable to fork off a sub-group to work on the logo guidance construction?

Straw poll in the chat:
* subteam (7 votes)
* whole TSC (0 votes)

The subteam would report back to TSC.
People who indicated logo design subteam interest: Daniel, Brad, Abhishek

* Daniel: in favor of community-sourced logo. Ideal world, we'd have a couple of months, pragmatically maybe less time.
* Abhishek: can we use other platforms a la /r/photoshoprequests to get quick responses? (maybe pay people to do it)
* Brad: this rubs me the wrong way, if we're asking someone disconnected from the
      project to do it, why not ask the LF logo designers to do it, if we
      already have access to them. Brad's not opposed to a redditor doing it,
      but it wouldn't be connected to the Chapel community. That said, Brad
      hasn't done his homework, and doesn't know if libregd has much Chapel
      background.
* Abhishek: it could help build awareness, in the way that some magazines / etc
          have have a "best drawing gets put on the front page"
* Daniel: I think this looks desperate, and if we're soliciting unrelated graphic
        designers' ideas, we might as well stick with LF designers, as Brad said.
* Engin: I agree about desperation. In general, I'd prefer to just go to Linux
       foundation for logos, and I am not sure that the effort we'd put into a
       community crowdsourcing of logos is worth the effort for us.
* Engin: of the libregd logos, only the top right is appealing to me.

Straw poll in the chat:
* Do we engage the community for logo (3 votes)
* Do we go directly to LF for logo (3 votes)
