# Chapel TSC Meeting

2025-12-11
Notes: Anna

Attendance:
- Abhishek
- Anna
- Ben
- Brad
- Daniel
- Engin
- Jade
- John
- Karlon
- Kevin Jernigan
- Lydia
- Matt
- Shreyas

------------------------------------

- Jade (chat): does HPSF copyright need to be added to the code?
- **Logo**
  - Recap of decisions so far
  - Will discuss more later in meeting since it can suck up all the time
- **TSC Chair proposed responsibilities**
  - https://github.com/chapel-lang/TSC/issues/22
  - May be expanded over time, could be split into multiple people if it becomes too much for one person to do
  - Brad: Can we go ahead and do a consensus vote on this?
  - Lydia: Yes, should later decide a process for adding new responsibilities
  - Consensus vote performed in teams chat: Can we proceed with the proposed chair responsibilities as listed on slide 9 in today's meeting?
    - Approved with 10 :+1: votes as of 10:24 PT
- Brad: aside on consensus votes
  - People pointed out that if we ask “does anyone think we need a formal vote on this?”, it essentially forces people to out themselves as maybe having a dissenting/controversial view
  - But also, we could get “vote fatigue” if everything just goes to formal vote
  - Lydia: have a solution for this, let’s discuss later
- **Who is interested in TSC Chair role?**
  - Brad has fulfilled it de-facto so far and would be willing to continue, but that doesn’t mean it has to be him, and this should certainly go to a formal vote
- **Expanding the TSC**
  - https://github.com/chapel-lang/TSC/issues/21
  - Certainly want to welcome new members, need to establish an application process
  - Membership was inherited from Chapel committing privileges to start with, which means it is currently HPE dominated
  - Note that next level of Linux Foundation project maturity is to have 3 different institutions represented on the TSC, and for no single institution to have a simple majority of representation
    - May take a while to accomplish, will need new members as well as potentially some members retiring, not in a rush to get it done
  - Abhishek: Could we short-cut the application process for people who are more obvious candidates? Such as those we have interacted with a lot and would clearly fulfill criteria
    - Brad: That makes sense, but I think we need to apply the process uniformly to avoid accusations of bias
      - Some +1 reacts live
      - Jade: Strongly agree, even for those we invite to apply. Also would like to see the live presentation, to slightly raise the bar of a legitimately invested application (incl. no AI applications).
  - Engin: Could have existing members apply retroactively, to model how to do it
    - Brad: That would be good, whether or not it would have enforcement of an actual vote of whether to keep you
  - Shreyas: Application is too short, we may get overwhelmed with many applications.
    - Should ask for more information about their involvement with the project, whether that’s code, leadership, community.
    - Application could formally include endorsements from existing TSC members.
    - Should ask about their timezone and ability to attend TSC meetings.
      - Brad: Timezone shouldn’t be part of application, because we don’t want to limit membership based on timezone, or make it appear that we will
    - Shreyas: If it’s shorter now, that would facilitate adding TSC members that we clearly want to add, however we will later end up having to expand it, might as well expand ahead of time.
  - Abhishek: How do we filter out people who are clearly unqualified? May need to do so efficiently if the project gets more popular and we get many applications. Will want explicit criteria for how to evaluate applications that fulfill all the application requirements, but we still need to decide if it has merit.
  - Lydia: Having people turn up in a meeting immediately, showing their name and face, may be undesirable. Thinking of subconscious biases that we will unintentionally apply in our selections, which we could avoid with some sort of blind selection process. Suggest an initial process of just text applications where we gather a number of candidates, narrow them down to a few best who we then verify are human and legit.
    - Some people may need to be anonymous for comfort or safety, and don’t want to be known with more than a username. We should be explicit about how much de-anonymization will be required throughout the whole process, like if they need to publicly associate their name.
    - Brad: Like the idea of a two stage application.
    - Brad: It will be hard to get a quorum with people who are not willing to come to meetings or associate with their real life info.
      - Lydia: Will have to balance between requirements to be able to feasibly participate, and being transparent about those requirements, as well as expressing general expectations (come to meetings as you can) vs hard requirements (we need proof you’re a real person).
      - Shreyas: It shouldn’t be a problem if TSC membership requires about the same level of identification as contributing code does, i.e., the DCO which contains your name.
  - Lydia: For timezones, instead of asking about timezone, we can ask about willingness to attend meetings at times that may be awkward for them due to timezone differences.
    - Engin: Can cross that bridge when we come to it
  - Brad: I don’t think we’re likely to be flooded with a huge number of applications (that would be a nice problem to have!). Don’t think spambot applications (which will probably be via Github issue) are much of a concern. And completely bogus/AI applications which falsify involvement with the project will be obvious.
- **TSC Member Expectations**
  - https://github.com/chapel-lang/TSC/issues/23
  - Tabling this discussion for time
- **Logo Design Discussion**
  - Only briefly running through these alternate options due to low time. Discussion running well into overtime, most members dropped.
  - Brad: Want to decide whether we should work on refining HPSF designs, or go in a new direction.
    - Going in a new direction is somewhat scary, having to go back to the HPSF designers and say we don’t like what they gave us. 
  - Lydia: Worried we may have not gotten many community submissions due to the tight timeline we laid out. Could reopen submissions since there wasn’t a solid positive response to the current candidates (HPSF or any others). Even if no one submits anything, could allay worries about not giving a chance for contributions.
    - Daniel: Share this concern. Also note we gave a similarly tight timeline to the HPSF designers, surely they didn’t have enough time to do their best work. We don’t have to settle for the least bad option, which seems to be a common sentiment of what we’re doing now.
      - Brad: We did give HPSF 2 weeks of time, and they say their typical turnaround is 2-3 weeks, so it might have been enough.
  - Engin: Would like to go with one of the options we have now. Have gotten used to the new logo. Don’t want to go back to community to source more options.
    - Jade: Agree. Still don’t really like the new logo, but we already decided what we wanted to do (both with time constraints as well as after/long term) via formal vote. Can’t indefinitely rehash this or other decisions.
    - Daniel: Don’t think we should consider this well decided due to the time constraint. The time crunch to either pick one of the options or no logo at all for SC affected my vote.
  - Daniel: With more time to come up with suggestions, and less reliance on assuming HPSF designs will be better than anything we could come up with, I would have submitted suggestions sooner in the process. Against going forward with a logo we don’t really like, just because we wanted it in time for one event.
    - Brad and Jade: But we did agree via TSC vote that we wanted to apply the time crunch, and what we wanted to happen after.
    - Daniel: Questions were posed separately of “do we need to settle on a logo in time for HPSF announcement”, then “which of these options should we use (or reject all) for that upcoming announcement”. This format affected my voting and likely the decisions made as a whole.
  - Brad: It should be possible to revisit decisions if someone thinks we’ve made a mistake, but it requires a champion. Encouraging Daniel to open an issue so we can make a decision about this in a structured way – it’s hard to run a meaningful discussion on this going back and forth between things, asking informally for interest in new options, etc.
    - Daniel: This is very very important as the face of the project, on par with our best performance results in terms of how it influences potential new adoption. It is important enough that we should avoid letting fatigue influence our decision making.
    - Jade: This is more of re-deciding a decision we already made because we don’t love it, rather than a mistake. Don’t want to start all over on the decision process.
    - Daniel: Don’t think it’d be starting entirely over, would preserve most of the work so far. Only think we need to revisit via further iteration with the HPSF graphic designers – which can mean asking for significant changes or entirely new stuff, not just revisions. It’s reasonable to come back to a graphic designer and say we don’t like what they gave us.
    - Brad: We can only do so much iteration, besides the time involved it does also cost someone (HPSF) money for the designers’ time.

------------------------

Todo items/threads left open:
- Jade HPSF copyright question
- Lydia proposal for consensus voting issue
- TSC Member Expectations discussion
- Daniel to open issue about logo decision
