Attendance
==========
* Brad
* Lydia
* Jade
* Daniel
* Ben
* Andy
* Engin
* Abhishek
* Karlon
* Chris Clark

Logo
====
* Recap of where we are (see slides)

* Chris: Designers are going to have a hard time designing without
  the ability to use a 'C', the name, nor a Chapel.

* Brad: Agree, but it feels as though our hands are pretty tied here.
  Would need to go against HPE legal guidance with the C, against our
  preferences to have any religious implications, and would lock
  ourselves into the name (or waste time making a throwaway logo) if
  it was built around "Chapel."  We are hoping designers can focus on
  what we do more than what our name is/means and that they are more
  creative and better at design than I am.

* Chris: If logo is going to be temporary...

* Brad (and others): Would prefer not to think of the logo as
  inherently temporary.  Ideally, we wouldn't change it again if/when
  we renamed the project, but would just swap the new name in for
  Chapel in the design, keeping the visual the same.  After all,
  there's no guarantee we will/can rename the language, and we would
  prefer to design and adopt a logo we like, thinking of it as being
  long-term rather than a stopgap.


TSC Chair: Discussion
=====================
* Jade: Could have several people own different roles here.

* Engin: sees a natural split between first two and second two
  (meeting coordination vs. interaction with HPSF)
  
* Engin: Would propose starting with single person and split as we
  grow / need arises

* Engin: Seems like Brad has been de facto chair

* Brad: Agree, and this is arguably because I was charged with getting
  us into HPSF to start with, etc.  Would be willing to keep serving,
  but if people wanted to advocate for change, fresh blood, etc. would
  understand that as well.

* Engin: Happy for Brad to be chair for now, but ultimately may be
  useful to have a distinct tech lead from TSC chair.
  
* Brad: Are others interested in throwing their hat into the ring? (no
  response, but also not everyone is here)

* Chris: In HPSF charter, chair or lead from TSC is specified as being
  the voting member of the TAC and will be the primary contact for
  HPSF

* Chris: Project decides how it manages itself, but would encourage a
  chair/lead and to have that person be the primary point of
  communication and voting member of the TAC

* Brad: Boilerplate tech charter for projects may need to be updated
  then, as it uses wordings like "may elect a chair" and "or any other
  TSC member so disignated by the TSC" as the HPSF POC

* Chris: OK


New TSC members / applicants: Discussion
========================================

* Lydia: Would want to have candidates that had demonstrated a
  continual interest in the project, and proof that they had stuck
  around for longer than a year, actively engaging in discussions,
  etc.  E.g., every six months over 1-1/2 years may not be enough;
  maybe more like every three months would be better.  No requirement
  to commit code.  Would want to see them engaging with the community.

* Brad: Where would a PI like Eric Laurendeau, who's not directly
  involved in issues, discussions, but oversees a long-term Chapel
  project, fall for you?

* Lydia: Would think of that as being more "in" [because it's
  long-term, he represents users, etc.].  Less clear would be a
  previously active user who'd fallen off the map and was interested
  in joining.

* Daniel: Agrees in general.  Worst-case scenario would be that we
  request people to join, someone does, then disappears ("Ghost TSC
  member").  W.r.t. active contributions, dedication to the project,
  etc. are like proxies for engagement.  Wouldn't inherently bother
  him if someone hadn't engaged in the past year, say.

* Daniel: If an applicant was active in another community, that could
  be useful, provided that that prior community is sustained and
  useful.  So, wouldn't have a time- or frequency-based metric.  But
  evidence that a person could sustain and keep their seat to avoid
  the need to vote people out.

* Brad: Don't need written set of metrics per se, could deliberate on
  a case-by-case basis.  But need to not seem like we're being
  biased in some way.

* Jade: But if we don't have a written set of metrics, we do run the
  risk of seeming to play preferential to people we know vs. don't
  know.  If someone wasn't involved with Chapel, what is their
  motivation to be on the TSC?  Can't come up with an answer that
  would satisfy them.

* Brad: To Jade's point, if we know someone, that seems like a sign of
  engagement with the project, which seems like something we should
  value -- not a source of bias.  I.e., it seems reasonable to accept
  people we know if we know them because they've been active/vocal.

* Daniel: Not having metrics leaves a lot of room for us to be biased,
  potentially.  It seems like a reasonable thing and a way to keep us
  accountable and not influenced by biases, etc.  Similar to Jade.
  But tough to pin them down -- e.g., metrics based on duration seem
  challenging...  To respond to Jade's questions about motivation,
  that feels like a proxy as to whether someone would be a sustained
  contributor.  If someone's motivation was simply "I want to help
  steer a project, and Chapel feels like it needs steering."  That
  seems like enough even if they don't have prior experience.
  Presumably you would know something about it (that it exists).

* Andy: Rather than firm metrics, maybe a list of things we'll
  consider in reviewing applicants?

* Lydia: A little hesitant to support someone with no experience with
  the project because we're not just here to drive things, but to
  represent the community as a whole.  Hard to do that if you're
  not in the community already.  Have a responsibility to support
  the people who are already in the community.

* Daniel: Is us representing the community a goal in the charter as
  written?

* Brad: Not that I recall, but I'm not sure.


Sidebar about Processes/Tools
=============================

* Brad: Q for Chris: Can the TSC deliberate about things in a
  non-public setting, like debating the merits of a TSC applicant's
  case?  Seems like that could be awkward to do in a public setting
  ("I don't think this person has done enough.")

* Chris: It's good to do things in public, but also OK to have such
  discussions in private.  Can set up a Chapel Slack workspace with
  a private TSC channel.  Would be free for now, but trying to get
  Pro account for every LF project.  Already, any LF project can get
  a GitHub enterprise account.
